As you have previously learned building
a website using responsive design requires
a responsive grid and
responsive breakpoints.
Bootstrap provides both of
these as part of its library.
The bootstrap grid system helps us to
create web page layouts through a series
of rows and
columns that house our content.
For the grid, bootstrap uses a 12 column
grid system that can be fluid or fixed.
The bootstrap grid system always
has a container, rows and columns.
The container is the root
element of your grid.
Bootstraps grid system always
starts with the container.
The container contains pads and
aligns your content.
Its width is determined based on
the current responsive breakpoint.
You can add rows and
inside each row you can add columns.
Let me demonstrate how we put
this all together by using
little lemons website as an example.
All right, I have opened my
joe's burger index.html file.
In this web page I have
added two columns to my row.
Bootstrap is smart and will set the two
columns to span six columns spaces.
If I want to control how many spaces
a column uses, I can suffix a number.
Let's shrink the price
column to four spaces and
expand the menu column to eight spaces.
To do this, I add the suffix-4 to the coal
CSS class above the prices heading.
I also add the suffix-8 to the coal
CSS class above our menu heading.
But here's the amazing part of bootstrap.
I can configure my content to use
different layouts based on the device
using the breakpoint specific CSS rules.
Let's have the content stacked on top
of each other on mobile devices and
have them display side by
side on desktop devices.
Since columns will wrapped in euros,
if we exceed the 12 column space,
we can use this to stack content.
For mobile devices, I'll set the columns
to use 12 spaces each by adding
12 as a suffix to the coal rule for
both columns.
Then for desktop I'll set them to six
columns each by using a cold- LG rule and
adding the column sizes-6 as a suffix.
I will save the file by
pressing control and s or
command s on a Mac and
open it on my web browser.
Notice that now the columns
are side by side.
Next I opened my web developer
tools by pressing the F- 12 key.
In the top left corner,
there is a mobile phone tablet button.
Clicking on this button
enables the device mode.
This allows me to simulate
different devices.
I select to view my website on
a mobile phone device, amazing.
My content has stacked
vertically on mobile.
Bootstrap has ensured our website will
work on a mobile phone thanks to its CSS
rules and grid system.
This will save a lot of development
time by not needing to develop different
content layouts per device.
Bootstraps grid system is very powerful
and suitable for most development needs